Python Generation
-----------------

The :doc:`/technical-guide/command-line/publish-py` command generates a typed,
standard-library-only Python package for Python 3.11 and newer.

Model mapping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Item and composite type names remain PascalCase dataclass names.
* Property names become snake_case attributes. Their exact COGS names are kept
  as serialization metadata for JSON and XML.
* COGS inheritance becomes Python class inheritance, and abstract model types
  cannot be instantiated from serialized data.
* Ordered and repeated properties use Python lists.
* ``ItemContainer`` and all model/value/helper classes are exported from the
  package root.

Primitive mappings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Strings and URIs map to ``str``; integer families to ``int``; float and double
to ``float``; decimal to ``decimal.Decimal``; date/time values to the matching
``datetime`` standard-library types; and duration to ``datetime.timedelta``.
The package also supplies ``LangString``, ``CogsDate``, ``GYearMonth``,
``GYear``, ``GMonthDay``, ``GMonth``, and ``GDay`` value types.

Serialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Generated values provide ``to_dict``/``from_dict``, ``to_json``/``from_json``,
``to_element``/``from_element``, and ``to_xml``/``from_xml``.
``ItemContainer`` additionally provides path-or-stream ``load_*``/``dump_*``
helpers.

JSON uses the flat COGS contract: ``items``, optional
``topLevelReferences``, ``$type`` discriminators, and identification-only item
references. A custom JSON writer preserves ``Decimal`` values as JSON numbers.

XML uses the model's qualified namespace, schema element order,
``TypeOfObject`` item references, ``xml:lang`` for language strings, and
``xsi:type`` for allowed reusable datatype substitutions. Parsing constructs a
per-container identity map, so repeated and forward references resolve to the
same Python object.

The runtime rejects unknown fields, invalid discriminators, duplicate item
definitions, and malformed primitive lexical values. Cardinality, string,
enumeration, pattern, and numeric facets remain the responsibility of the JSON
Schema and XML Schema generated by COGS.
